# census2020formsapp
A tool for employee assignment for the purpose of taking census

US CENSUS 2020: Employee Assignment Tool
Group Members: Aanchal Senapati, Jon Goldman, Mohamed Yasir Mohamed Maideen 
Description:
The US census has been conducted every 10 years since 1790. The process undergoes employing thousands of employees to collect information from the residents. Data collected from the census helps to allocate representatives to the US House of Representatives to ensure representation.  It also helps the federal government to allocate grants and other funds to states and localities based on population and other demographic data collected during the census.  This census process will be handling enormous amounts of data which are to be properly organized in order to depict the country's current population and also their standard of living. These data are more critical for a nation’s economic activities. For example, GDP per capita is calculated based on the population of the country by which trade decisions are made in the international market. 
Employees will be categorized in the Employee database based on their role.  If their role is ‘canvasser’, they will also be counted in the Canvasser table by region. Our project will act as a tool for the US Census Bureau to handle data of employees, their assigned region and collected resident’s information. It will picture the process of collecting, recording, retrieving the resident’s and employee’s information based on the conditions. This database contains an employee table which holds the employee’s information who are employed as census takers, Resident information table, Resident address table, region directory table and employee assignment table. 
The employee assignment table will show the regions that are allotted to employees. For the 2020 census, the Census Bureau aims to hire 500,000 employees and to perform complex region allocation for these employees. From this database, we can know the process of data handling and recording data with meaningful attributes, and it will also show the process of counting population by government. 

